Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a sci-fi horror
film called “Mimic.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In Manhattan, cockroaches are spreading a
deadly disease, and a large number of children
die.
Desperate to stop the epidemic, Doctor Peter
Mann, head of the CDC in New York, calls on
the aid of entomologist Susan Tyler.
Susan uses genetic engineering to create an
insect hybrid called the Judas bug.
The Judas is a hybrid between a termite and
a mantis and is designed to release an enzyme
that accelerates the cockroaches’ metabolism,
causing roaches to starve to death.
Susan designs the Judas to have short lifespans,
making sure they all die in a few months so
that they won’t disrupt the ecosystem.
Peter and Susan release Judas bugs, and the
cockroaches die off.
In a short time, the disease is eradicated,
children are saved, and Peter and Susan are
married.
Three years pass, and a priest is seen running
from an unseen attacker.
He’s trapped on a roof, but whatever is
chasing him tries to break open the door.
The priest decides to scale down the side
of the building.
The unseen attacker catches up to the priest,
and the priest falls down screaming.
He dies upon impact.
A young boy from an adjacent building, Chuy,
sees the priest being dragged into the sewers
but thinks nothing of it.
Peter and Susan are preparing for an insect
exhibit, and Peter expresses his excitement
for starting a family, handing Susan an herbal
tonic that could help with conception.
Peter then arrives at an investigation scene
where police have found illegal immigrants
and are holding them in a building.
Peter’s colleague, Josh, tells Peter that
the inhabitants have Yellow Fever.
The building is also a front for illegal activities,
being run by the priest who earlier fell to
his death.
Peter then orders the quarantine of everyone
in the building as well as the first responders
to the scene.
They also find fecal matter on the ceiling
and a hysterical woman raving about a dark
angel coming to kill her.
Susan arrives at her insect laboratory with
a friend, and they’re met by two teenagers
eager to sell her insects.
One of the kids asks her why she likes insects
so much, and Susan tells him she admires insects
for their ingenuity and intelligence.
Insects have been around even before the dinosaurs
and are still alive today, making them a highly
successful inhabitant of the planet.
Susan explains the importance of each member
of an insect colony, from the drone or soldier
bugs to the queen.
Susan expounds that the drone bugs maintain
security and gather food.
They also guard an essential part of the colony;
the nest.
If the nest is invaded or destroyed, it could
mean the death of the entire colony.
All male members of a colony are sterile except
for one, and it’s this single male is the
only one that can mate with the queen.
If it dies, the birth process might get interrupted,
and the entire colony could die off.
Wanting to get more money, the kids offer
Susan a weird bug they found in the subway,
and after some negotiation, Susan gets the
bizarre insect.
Susan later notices that the weird bug’s
container is moving.
She tries to open it carefully, but it bites
her.
She‘s immediately alarmed and tells her
friend they have to find the kids who sold
it to her.
She gets her equipment and slices the container
open, discovering that the weird bug is a
Judas bug from three years ago.
She tries to examine it, but it bites her.
She then stabs it with a pin, killing it.
Seeing the weird bug secrete a white ooze,
she’s sure that it’s a Judas bug.
She reviews her old research notes but cannot
seem to find an explanation.
As she looks through her files, she doesn’t
notice a figure approaching her window.
The shadowy phantom enters and makes its way
to the Judas bug.
Susan takes a confirmatory enzyme test, and
the result comes back similar to the Judas
bug’s enzyme test from three years ago.
The dark figure makes a sound, and Susan goes
to check.
She sees that the Judas bug has been taken,
and her lab equipment has spilled to the floor.
She looks through the mess but finds nothing.
She notices a shadow moving in the darkness
but could not make out what it is.
Suddenly, the figure flies past her, out through
the window.
That night, Chuy sees a strange shape moving
in the street towards the building where the
illegal immigrants were discovered.
His caretaker, Manny, checks on what Chuy
is looking at but sees nothing.
Susan informs Peter that the specimen she
got from the two kids is undoubtedly the Judas
bug.
Peter is surprised, knowing that the Judas
bugs were engineered only to live one generation.
Susan is baffled as to how this has happened
but knows that they have to get more information.
Not only was the specimen confirmed to be
a Judas bug, but it was also just a hatchling.
The Judas bug was designed to die, but it’s
been breeding.
The following day, Peter and Susan meet up
with the kids at a subway station and access
an old maintenance room.
Manny is also at the same station with Chuy
polishing shoes.
Susan asks the kids if they’d seen some
kind of egg sack for the bugs, but the kids
say they didn’t.
Susan and Peter enter the old room but see
nothing out of the ordinary.
Susan drops some beads, and they fall down
a hidden hole behind a metal cabinet.
Peter’s flashlight falls in, and they try
to reach in.
Susan gets her arm in but doesn’t see a
creature on the other side examining her arm.
Just before it bites, a policeman, Leonard,
enters.
Susan gets her arm out, and Peter and Leonard
get into an argument.
Leonard wants them out and tells them they
can’t continue without a permit.
Peter gets mad but agrees they’ll return
some other time.
Meanwhile, Susan meets Chuy and Manny.
She discovers that Chuy is a talented savant,
able to tell the shoe size and brand of any
shoes just by the footsteps.
The two kids later head into a different part
of the train yard looking for the egg sack.
They find a slimy sack, looking like the egg
sack Susan showed them.
They try to pry it open but a creature comes
up behind them.
One of the kids shines a flashlight and sees
that the creature looks like a giant insect.
The other kid falls, and the one with the
flashlight gets stabbed through the chest.
The creature then attacks the other kid.
The following day, Susan meets with her colleague
and mentor, Doctor Gates, and informs him
about what she’s discovered.
Gates theorizes that some of the Judas bugs
may have survived.
Susan affirms that the Judas bugs all died
during experiments.
Gates nods, but the world is a different place.
He speculates some of them may have found
a way.
Even a tiny portion of the bugs could have
lived and developed into a whole colony.
Back in Manny’s apartment, Chuy is awake
staring at the quarantined building.
He hears strange sounds coming from inside
and goes in to investigate.
He finds a chapel with everything covered
up, and the sounds get louder.
He then sees a figure approaching that looks
like a person in an overcoat.
Another creature comes up behind him, and
they come closer.
At a water treatment plant, workers fish out
some sort of creature from the filtering tanks
and initially suspect it to be a toddler.
Upon closer inspection, they realize they’d
need an expert on insects.
The following day, Susan gets a call to get
to the water treatment plant.
She arrives shortly with her friend, and they
examine a specimen.
A worker takes it out of the freezer and shows
it to Susan and her friend.
The worker tells them that they find all sorts
of things in the filtering tanks, but this
looks different.
He reveals it, and Susan sees that it’s
a Judas bug but almost as big as a dog.
Her friend takes pictures, and Susan tells
her to have them delivered to Doctor Gates
for a detailed analysis.
Meanwhile, Manny discovers that Chuy is missing.
He sees Chuy’s window open and speculates
that he may have gone into the building next
to them.
Peter, Josh, and Leonard arrive back at the
train station and see a gaping hole in the
wall.
They go in carrying lab equipment, hoping
to get a sample or maybe find the Judas’
nest.
Leonard tells them that the sections head
to the lower levels, and some of the levels
are undermaintained.
They go down several stories underground.
Meanwhile, Manny calls the police but gets
his report waitlisted.
He then tries to find a way into the building
but instead finds an entrance into the sewer.
Manny heads down with nothing but a lighter.
Peter gets a call from Susan but gets reception.
They then agree to meet at the train station
as Susan needs to tell Peter what she found
at the water treatment plant.
Gates examines the creature found at the plant
with Susan’s friend.
Gates discovers that the specimen isn’t
just a one-off mutation but is actually a
member of a complex colony.
Susan then arrives at the train station but
waits for Peter by the entrance.
Leonard, Josh, and Peter head deeper in and
find a room with feces all over the walls
and hanging from the ceiling.
Susan then examines the photographs they took
of the creature from the water treatment plant
and focuses on two pictures.
She takes two parts and holds them next to
each other, the bug’s appendages forming
what looks like a human skull.
She soon realizes that she’s alone at the
station.
She tries to walk to the entrance to the underground
but sees a shadow of a person standing at
the edge of the platform.
She tries calling out but gets no response.
She then decides to walk away, but the figure
reveals itself as a giant Judas bug the size
of a person.
Susan sees it and starts running, but the
Judas bug takes her and flies off into the
tunnel.
Peter and Josh gather specimens from the walls
while Leonard stands on an old wooden platform,
looking at the remnants of the old subway.
A minor Judas bug comes up to him, and he
squishes it.
Peter sees this and rushes to save it but
is too late.
Both men are now standing on the platform
when it gives way.
They both fall to the ground, and Josh is
left alone above.
Leonard tasks Josh to go back and get help.
Josh hesitates, saying he won’t find a way
back, but realizes he has no choice but to
go as there’s no means of Leonard or Peter
getting back up.
Susan wakes up finding herself deep inside
the sewers.
She sees several bodies, including the priest’s
body, and grabs a metal pipe to defend herself.
She explores around, trying to find a way
out but sees more tunnels in all directions.
She sees light and approaches it.
Looking up, she sees people walking above
ground.
She tries to scream for help, but instead
of attracting people’s attention, she gets
the attention of one of the Judas bugs.
A bigger Judas bug comes to attack her, but
she impales it with the pipe and runs.
Another bug comes chasing after her, but she
escapes through a maintenance hole opening.
Josh tries to find his way back but gets sidetracked
and sees a metal door.
He opens it up, revealing several Judas egg
sacks.
He sees one of the Judas bugs inside, but
he sneaks away.
He slowly and silently tries to make it out
and sees an opening above.
He tries to get up, but the platform but falls,
making a loud thud.
This awakens the Judas bug.
Josh hurries back up, reaching for a rope,
but the Judas bug catches him.
Josh desperately reaches for the rope, but
blood sprays all over him from below, and
he starts bleeding from the mouth.
Josh then falls back down.
Susan looks up at the metal maintenance hole
cover above her, hearing movement.
She’s surprised to see Manny appear.
Peter and Leonard explore around the chasm,
believing Josh would be returning soon with
help.
Leonard sees an old train car, telling Peter
details about it, but Peter is uninterested.
They soon hear footsteps from around the corner.
Manny appears, telling them about Susan.
They help Susan get back up, but a Judas bug
hears them and starts coming for Susan.
They reach down for Susan and drop one of
the lights.
As the light falls, they see a Judas bug flying
up for Susan.
They pull Susan up, close the lid, and start
running.
They head back to the large chasm and try
to find cover in the train car.
Leonard fires several rounds at the Judas
bug, but it keeps coming.
The bug gets stuck at the door, and Leonard
keeps firing.
The bug tries to pull itself up but ends up
tearing itself apart.
It crawls under one of the shelves, and Peter
helps Leonard trying to get it out so they
can kill it.
They drag the Judas bug out, and Leonard drops
his guard.
The bug then springs back to life, slashing
Leonard’s leg.
Leonard fires more bullets at the bug, finally
killing it.
They lock themselves inside the train car,
and Peter tends to Leonard’s wounds.
Manny helps Susan examine the dead bug, and
she sees that the insect has developed organs,
specifically, lungs.
Susan speculates that when she accelerated
the Judas’ metabolism, she inadvertently
accelerated their breeding cycle as well.
In three years, the Judas could have reproduced
over several hundred thousand generations,
making them have accelerated evolution.
Peter is in disbelief, but Susan maintains
that apes turned into humans in just forty
thousand generations.
With the Judas going through several hundred
thousand, there’s no telling what they could
have evolved into.
Susan explains that animals in the wild sometimes
evolve to mimic their predator.
The reason why Judas bugs have stayed hidden
for so long may be a result of this.
Susan surmises that the Judas could have evolved
to mimic humans.
A swarm of Judas bugs then charge the train
car.
Susan sees that blood from Leonard’s wound
is attracting them.
She then takes the dead bug’s scent glands
and rubs them all over the cabin.
She tells everyone to rub it against the cracks
to repel the bugs.
This could mask the scent of Leonard’s blood.
Peter takes a scent gland and rubs it all
over Leonard’s wounds.
The Judas bugs soon stop and leave them alone.
Leonard finds an old map of the train station
and sees that they may have a chance to escape.
They need to switch the tracks and rewire
a fusebox to get the train going and get it
to the nearest exit.
Peter then decides it should be him and Manny
who should go out.
Manny and Peter rub the scent glands all over
themselves and split up.
Manny heads of the track switch while Peter
goes to the fuse box.
Peter quietly makes his way down the tracks
but comes face to face with a Judas bug.
He tries to stay still, and the Judas bug
walks over him.
He rubs more of the scent gland on himself.
Susan speculates that the Judases that have
been attacking them must be female as the
males are smaller, have a lighter color, and
can’t fly.
If they find and kill the single fertile male
in the colony, they could potentially wipe
them all out.
Manny searches for the track switch but instead
finds Chuy.
Manny tries to get Chuy to come with him,
but a Judas bug comes up behind him and stabs
him through the chest.
Chuy screams, watching Manny die.
Peter gets the fuse box running, and the lights
turn on.
Leonard turns the train’s power on, and
it starts moving.
Susan finds Chuy and the track switch, and
she takes Chuy with her.
Peter also finds a small dumbwaiter that could
also be a way to the surface.
Leonard gets the train moving forward, but
it runs into a problem and starts smoking.
Peter reunites with Susan and Chuy, and they
try to hide from the Judas bugs.
Leonard sees Judases swarming the group and
decides to step out of the train.
He tries to get the Judases’ attention by
singing and letting himself bleed.
The Judases then charge Leonard.
With the coast clear, Peter, Chuy, and Susan
head to the dumbwaiter.
Susan and Chuy get in, but Peter gets separated
when more bugs appear.
He tries pulling them up, but the bugs charge
him.
Peter crawls through a small tunnel and finds
himself in the nest.
He has the chance to destroy these creatures
once and for all.
A bug sees Susan and Chuy had made it up the
dumbwaiter and surprisingly understands how
it works.
It starts trying to cut the cable holding
up the dumbwaiter, but Susan and Chuy make
it out just in time.
The dumbwaiter falls, trapping the bugs underground.
Peter sees gas pipes running all over the
nest and takes an ax, smashing the pipes open.
Flammable gas leaks out, filling the room.
The bugs chasing after him break the steel
plate open and almost get through to him,
but Peter takes a lighter and tries to ignite
the gas.
The lighter malfunctions and falls into the
water below.
Peter takes the ax, bashing it against steel
to produce a spark that he hopes would ignite
the gas.
Just as the Judas bugs descend on him, Peter
creates a spark, and the entire sewer system
explodes.
On the surface, utility hole covers are launched
into the air, cars are ignited, the ground
rumbles, and fire bursts out from the sewers.
Susan gains consciousness and sees Chuy, but
the fertile male Judas bug appears.
Chuy is frozen in fear as the Judas bug approaches
him.
Susan wounds herself to attract the bug’s
attention and runs towards an oncoming train.
The Judas bug runs after her, and right before
the train runs them over, she jumps out of
the way.
The Judas bug gets squished and dismantled
under the train’s wheels, and Susan finds
Chuy.
Firefighters, police, and medical personnel
swarm the streets as they try to get everything
under control.
Gates tells Susan that all the bugs have been
exterminated.
From the subway exit, Peter ascends.
Susan and Chuy rush to him, and the three
all hug intimately.